--- Page 1 ---
 
 
A CREDIT MODEL ON P2P NETWORK BASED ON COMMENTS GROUP 
QING-QI ZHONG, WEN-HONG WEI 
Department of Computer Science, Dongguan University of Technology, Dongguan 523808, China 
E-MAIL: zhongqq@dgut.edu.cn, hquwwh@tom.com 
Abstract: 
In order to solve a series of security problems such as 
mobility and uncertainty brought by frauds in the network, in 
this paper, we propose a new credit model on P2P network, 
and use a special dynamic mechanism named comments group 
to distinguish the reliability of P2P model. Compared with 
former models, our model can be better used in mobile and 
uncertain P2P network, which improve the serviceability of 
the P2P network. 
Keywords: 
P2P; Credit Model; Comments group 
1. 
Introduction 
The core in P2P field is resources, of which the key is 
to search the resources of reliable substance. The issue that 
how to acquire the necessary resources of reliable 
substances assemblage with fast-speed and accuracy, and 
select the suitable substances from this assemblage as a 
server machine have become a heat topic. In literature [1], 
we use a credit model without particular feature, and via the 
client’s computed storage end to guarantee both security 
and efficiency of the credit value. In literature [2], in order 
to emphasize on how to design and calculate the credit 
value, the paper put forward the concept of super node in 
the network. In our paper, we propose a new credit model 
via bringing forward a role of dynamic panel and 
corresponding system, which can provide the credit 
calculation, storage, and inquiry function with fast-speed, 
high-efficiency and security. Thus, the P2P network can 
operate efficiently. 
The so-called dynamic panel refers to a type of 
dynamic varying substance’s assemblage which can store 
and provide inquiry of credit value. According to the 
research 
from 
F.Le 
Fessant, 
S.Handurukande, 
A.M.Kermarrec and L.Massouli, etc, they put forward the 
“small world” phenomenon of position and interest existed 
in the network, which can be used to divide the P2P 
network based on region, and each region contains an 
amount of substances. When the substance transact with 
each other, whether it comes from the same or different 
region, this transaction needs to ensure the reliability of the 
two parities. This paper is to deal with the problem on how 
to gain the credit value. 
2. 
Problem analysis 
2.1. 
Inquiry efficiency of the credit value 
There two common ways to inquiry at present: the 
broadcast inquiry and the single node inquiry. In the 
broadcast inquiry, client stores server’s credit value. The 
inquiry end uses this way to request the server’s credit 
value. In other words, when the substance (the former client) 
being queried, after having transacted with the server in the 
network, it will transmit the server’s credit value to inquiry 
end. However, it needs more communicated expense than 
other means, with lower efficiency and inferior network 
utilization factor. While in the single node inquiry, the 
server stores its own credit value, so that the client can gain 
the credit value by querying its end. Despite its 
high-efficiency, the communication quantity is little, and 
simultaneously, there exists the security problems like fraud, 
retaliation, etc. 
2.2. 
Timeliness 
When the client selects the superior creditable server, 
the timeliness and representative faithfulness of credit value 
is vitally interrelated. If the credit value can not reflect the 
authentic server’s reputation, the whole credit system will 
lose its worthiness. 
2.3. 
Integrality 
The credit value is offered by the client, while the 
server probably modifies or forges it deeply as to gain a 
preferable one. As a result, the integrality of the credit value 
will be destroyed. 
344
2011 IEEE
978-1-4577-0308-9/11/$26.00 ©
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
2.4. Robustness 
It’s obvious that we do not expect that there is a certain 
physics node in the P2P network, once it has been destroyed, 
the network can not operate as usual. This result is entirely 
contrary to the original intention of why we used the P2P 
network. 
2.5. Retaliation 
The server probably retaliate the client as their 
evaluations are too low, for instance, viciously reduce 
client’s credit value or provide inferior service at next time. 
3. 
Credit Model 
3.1. 
Credit Model 
The P2P credit model is shown in the figure 1. In this 
figure, ķ shows that the client request the evaluate end 
for credit value, ĸ shows that the evaluate end transmit 
the credit value to the client, Ĺ shows that the client 
transmit data to the server, ĺ shows that the client 
transmit the new credit value to the evaluate end, Ļ 
shows that the server transmit relevant data to evaluate end, 
ļ shows that the group leader broadcast the new credit 
value to each member inner the panel. 
This model acts the following roles in accordance with 
its analyzed function: client (or evaluate end), server, 
evaluate end, inquiry end. Theoretically, each substance in 
the P2P network can serve as one or certain roles as 
mentioned above. That is to say, one entity can inquiry 
other servers (serves as inquiry end), or use another entities 
server to offer service and evaluation (serves as client), 
which simultaneously offer service to other entities (serves 
as server). At the same time, it can collect the whole entity 
credit value of this region and offer the table for the inquiry 
end to use. However, considering that not only the entities 
have differences in actual performance, but also it’s 
evaluate end burden heavy task and excessive data 
communication, the model uses certain algorithms to select 
the weight computer as the comments group member. 
3.2. 
The principles abided by model 
Apparently, it’s of importance on how to select the 
comments group. As a rule, a panel includes 8 to 10 
members. We should abide by the following principles 
while selecting members as to ensure their weight: 
(1) Accuracy. Make sure this panel can provide each 
entity credit value of the inner region. Thus, we select those 
high credit value entities as our panel’s member as possible 
as we can. 
 
 
Some evaluate 
members 
Sever 
Client 
Ļ 
Ĺ 
ķ 
ĸ 
ĺ 
ļ 
Group leader 
(Evaluate end) 
 
Figure 1. Credit model 
 (2) Speediness. Apparently, the faster the exchanging 
speeds of information between each region’s entity and 
panels, the higher inquiry efficiency of the entire credit 
value. It this way, the substance with higher network’s 
speed will be chosen. 
(3) Representativeness. To make sure the network can 
operate as usual, we should consider the problem of 
regional relevance while selecting members, especially 
those of each subregion. Only through this way can we 
avoid all panels’ members breaking off the network and 
dropping the regional credit value’s data, which in turn can 
result in collapsing the entire network’s credit value system. 
(4) Stability. Obviously, it’s inappropriate to evaluate 
panel’s member list too fast. Therefore, those entities that 
online longer and more stable can be considered at first. 
(5) Flexibility. Whatever substance of this region 
enters into the network, we need to ensure the weight of 
entity according to the standard mentioned above. If the 
weight reaches the threshold we have set, this entity will be 
added into the panel and gain the credit value table. 
Meanwhile, the last one in the group has to quit. 
3.3. 
The framework of panel 
After we make sure the members of comments group, 
its’ members should follow the rule and coordinate with 
each other: 
(1) We set the highest weight member as the panel’s 
leader, and other members become candidates. The leader 
receives the entire regional member’s credit value table and 
distributes it to these candidates by the multicast. 
(2) The leader establishes new credit value table after 
each transaction has accomplished, and distribute it to other 
members for the sake of update. 
345
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
(3) Only after the leader pushed out the network for 
some reasons (e.g. fall line), can a new principal with 
highest weight be selected, and start up its credit value. 
3.4. 
The implementation procedure of model 
First of all, when the regional network initializes itself, 
each autonomic region will transmit its credit value to panel, 
so that the leader can collect them into a table and preserve 
in all members’ record. 
When one of these regional entities requests the credit 
value of another one, the group leader will offer the 
corresponding credit value according to mastery tables. 
The client will gain the corresponding credit value list 
and select the highest value to transact it. 
The client ensures the new credit value base on former 
one and the relevant data after finishing the transaction. The 
record of this process will be sent to server’s regional leader, 
and the server will transmit the relevant records to the 
group leader. 
The leader, therefore, receives this regional server’s 
new credit value and data, so as to ensure both parties’ 
records and efficiency, which can updates its credit value 
chart by the form of panel’s broadcast. 
 
Begin 
Upload credit 
Put in inquiry 
Get credit 
Selection 
Group leader confirm 
transaction 
Upload credit 
Group broadcast 
Update credit 
Finish 
Is used? 
 
Figure 2. The implementation procedure of model 
3.5. 
Efficiency analysis 
Under an ideal circumstance, we can compare the new 
model with those of the literature [1]. The entire network 
has 1000 nodes (in ideal situation), which has been divided 
into 10 regions. Thus, each region has 100 nodes which can 
evaluate 10 members of a panel, and all the regional nodes 
form a connected graph. These regions in turn can connect 
with each other, and make up of completed graph. 
In general, we assume that the spending time of each 
regional node connect with another one is  , that is to say, 
the average spending time of cross-regional node is 
out
ω
(
m
ω
>
˅: 
In the course of a credit value’s inquiry, as the client 
maybe any nodes of the entire network, the new client have 
to acquire server’s certificate as the literature [1] described, 
and gain the server’s credit value from the former client, so 
as to complete two spending time: 
(0.9
0.1
)
(0.9
0.1
)
out
m
out
m
ω
ω
ω
ω
+
+
+
 
In the model proposed by us, however, the new client 
just has to acquire the server’s credit value from regional 
panel’s leader, of which the spending time is: 
(0.9
0.1
)
(0.9
0.1
)
out
out
m
out
m
ω
ω
ω
ω
ω
<
+
+
+
 
The credit value updates itself after the service is 
finished. In the literature [1], the new client builds a 
server’s credit value and stores it. It sends the certificate to 
inform the server, who will update the new client’s 
certificate of former one, and the network expense is: 
(0.9
0.1
)
(0.9
0.1
)
out
m
out
m
ω
ω
ω
ω
+
+
+
 
What’s more, the new client just has to update the 
server’s credit value to the leader, who will broadcast inner 
the panel. The spending time is: 
)
1.0
9.0
(
)
1.0
9.0
(
)
1.0
9.0
(
m
out
m
out
m
m
out
ω
ω
ω
ω
ω
ω
ω
+
+
+
<
+
+
 
We can conclude from the above formulas that this 
model is in favor of economizing the network resources and 
improve its availability and efficiency. 
4. 
Performance analysis 
We can analyze the model as follow: 
(1) Efficiency of the credit’s security. This model 
introduces the concept of comments group, and adopt the 
layer multicast technology, which can avoid the drawbacks 
of traditional broadcast inquiry and single node inquiry, 
reduce the communicated expense, and improve the 
efficiency to certain extent. 
(2) Real time of the credit. Owing that the 
corresponding credit value can update in time after each 
transaction has accomplished, the model possess superior 
346
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011


--- Page 4 ---
 
 
real time. 
(3) Integrality of the credit. In this model, the credit 
value’s evaluation is finished by the client and store in the 
panel. Therefore, it avoids the server to falsify, forge or 
delete the credit value. Because of the higher reputation of 
each member in the panel, the model guarantees the credit 
table’s authenticity and integrality. 
(4) Robustness of the network. This model is superior 
in the robustness and efficiency in the network by 
overcoming the drawbacks of the excessive communication 
expense and lower response of the network that lack of 
organization. Besides, the model doesn’t bear the traditional 
centralized server which is confronted to particular 
structure node, as it can lead to break down the whole 
network if it can not operate as usual. 
(5) Prevention of fraud. On account of the client 
evaluate the credit value after the transaction have finished, 
the model cease the fraudulent phenomena. 
5. 
Conclusions 
This paper put forward a credit model aim at solving 
security and reliability problems exist in the present P2P 
network, and introduce a robust, secure and efficient P2P 
environment. This model divides the entire network into 
amounts of regions in accordance with the “small world” 
theory existed in the P2P network. Meanwhile, it solves the 
problems mentioned above to some extent by electing a 
comments group in all the regions to store and offer each 
member’s credit value to clients. 
Due to the particularity of the panel’s members, how 
to ensure the weight and threshold of each member has 
been the key problem. Besides, as the model establishes the 
entire credit system based on the high credit value of 
panel’s members, it can not completely guarantee the actual 
behaviors done by panel’s members. Therefore, it’s 
necessary to form an inner panel’s mutual supervision 
system, which is supposed to ensure the integrate credit 
system. This task is up for us to make further efforts to 
accomplish. 
Acknowledgements 
This work is supported by the Natural Science 
Foundation of China (No. 60973150) and the Young 
Natural Science Foundation of Dongguan University of 
Technology (No. 2010QZ21). 
References 
[1] Hen Zhao,Yining Quan, Yupu Hu. Secure and 
efficient reputation system in P2P networks. Computer 
Applications, 2005, 25(5): 551-553. 
[2] Jiangsha Deng, Zhiwei Zhang. Trust Model in P2P 
Environment. Journal of Changsha University of 
Electric Power, 2006, 03: 42-45. 
[3] Bin Yu, Munindar P Singh. An Evidential Model of 
Distributed Reputation Management. Proceedings of 
the 1st International Joint Conference on Autonomous 
Agents and Multi Agent Systems (AAMAS). Bologna, 
2002. 
[4] Farag 
Azzedin, 
Multhucumaru 
Maheswaran. 
Integrating Trust Grid Resource Management Systems. 
Proceedings of the International Conference on 
Parallel Processing Vancouver, 2002. 
[5] Jingmei Zhang, Jingxiang Zhang. Researches on Trust 
Models of P2P Network Security. Application 
Research of Computers, 2003, 3: 76-77. 
[6] Kewen Wang, Fuding Xie, Yong Zhang. Trust model 
to peer-to-peer network environment based on time 
decay. Computer Engineering and Applications, 2009, 
45(23): 92-95. 
 
347
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011
