--- Page 1 ---
Online Trust and Reputation Systems 
  
Neel Sundaresan 
eBay Research Labs 
2145 Hamilton Avenue 
San Jose, CA 95125 
(408)376-8422 
nsundaresan@ebay.com 
 
ABSTRACT 
As online commerce, social networks, and user-generated content 
become common, need for trust and reputation models become 
prime. This tutorial will give an overview of trust and reputation 
systems as studied by social network researchers. Other topics 
include: Reputation and its relationship to security and fraud; 
Feedback and other Manifestations and Implementations of trust 
and reputations; Models of reputation; platforms: P2P systems, 
Centralized systems; Auctions, Incentive systems; Collaborative 
filtering; Social Networking and Social reputation; Portability and 
Universality of Identity, trust, and reputation.  
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
I.2.11 [Artificial Intelligence]: Distributed Artificial Intelligence. 
General Terms 
Economics, Human Factors, Verification, Management, 
Algorithms, Theory. 
Keywords 
Identity; Trust; Fraud; Reputation; Electronic Commerce; Social 
Networks 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Over the past decade electronic commerce, user generated content 
and recommendations, and social networking applications have 
become common on the web. As reliance on these applications 
grow the need for a trust and reputation model has become 
essential. Users look for recommendations on products, web site, 
suppliers, buyers, content, and peers based upon the nature of 
interaction. Recommendations are provided based upon personal 
experience, usefulness of prior recommendations, and other 
behaviors on the system. The roles and behaviors of any user in 
an online application define the trust that other users of the system 
have on the user. This also defines the reputation of the user in the 
community. 
Feedback on an online marketplace like eBay is an expression of 
reputation. It provides a simple accumulative model for 
reputation. Social network sites like Slashdot.org and digg.com 
have their own model of reputation where users with extensive 
authorship and recommendation are promoted to being 
moderators and super-moderators.  
Trust is well-studied among social network researchers. It is 
explicated through referrals and ratings. Resnick[] has marked out 
the characteristics of a reputation system. These include 1. actors 
in such a system have to be long lived to influence future 
reputation scores;  2. mechanism to capture current scores to 
influence future scores; 3. ratings about past interactions to guide 
current interactions. The characteristics apply well not only to 
eCommerce systems like clicks-and-mortar stores where an 
individual business is rated by its customers but also in peer-to-
peer marketplaces and social network sites which include 
interactions, reviews, and guides. 
Trust and reputation often identify other related entities like fraud 
and safety. Algorithms defined to compute reputation are closely 
attached to those designed to detect fraud or compute safety 
measures. Lack of trust leads means higher possibility of fraud or 
fraud committers try and take over reputed member’s trust to 
commit fraud. Mechanisms that restrict such takeover are of 
importance to build low fraud applications. 
2. TUTORIAL OVERVIEW 
This tutorial will cover several areas of online reputation systems. 
Some key topics include: 
1. 
Concepts and definition of online trust and reputation. 
2. 
Reputation and its relationship to security and fraud. 
3. 
Feedback and other manifestations and Implementations 
of trust and reputations 
4. 
Models of reputation  
5. 
Platforms: P2P systems, Centralized systems  
6. 
Auctions, Incentive systems 
7. 
Collaborative filtering 
8. 
Social Networking and Social reputation 
9. 
Degrees of freedom; Circles of trust 
10. Example Applications (Amazon, Epinions, eBay, 
Slashdot.org, Digg etc.) 
 
3. TUTOR BIOGRAPHY 
Neel Sundaresan is the Director and Head of eBay Research Labs. 
His current areas of research interest includes Social and 
Incentive Networks, Trust and Reputation Systems, Machine 
Learning as applied to Recommender systems, Classification, 
Ontology, and Search. Prior to joining eBay was a founder and 
CTO of a startup focused on multi-attribute fuzzy search and 
network CRM. Prior to this he was the head of the eMerging 
Internet Technologies group at the IBM Research Center. There 
he built the first XML-based Search Engine. He was one of the 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
EC’07, June 11–15, 2007, San Diego, California, USA. 
ACM  978-1-59593-653-0/07/0006. 
 
366


--- Page 2 ---
early leaders in building XML technologies including schema-
aware compression algorithms, application component generators 
and pattern-match systems and compilers. He built the first RDF 
reference implementation as a W3C standard recommendation. 
He led research work in other areas like domain specific search 
engines, multi-modal interfaces and assistive technologies, 
semantic transcoding, web mining, query systems, and 
classification for semi-structured data. Prior to this he worked on 
C++ compiler and runtime systems for massively parallel 
machines and for shared memory systems and also on retargetable 
compilers, program translators and generators. He has over 40 
research publications and several patents to his credit. He has 
been a frequent speaker at several national and international 
technology conferences. He has advised several PhD and masters 
dissertations. He has a degree in mathematics and a masters in 
computer science and engineering from the Indian Institute of 
Technology, Mumbai India and a PhD in computer science from 
Indiana University, Bloomington. 
4. REFERENCES 
[1] Z. Abrams, R. McGrew and S. Plotkin. A Non-Manipulable 
Trust System Based on EigenTrust. ACM SIGecom 
Exchanges, Vol.5, No. 4, July 2005, pages 21-30. 
[2] Z. Abrams, R. McGrew and S. Plotkin. Keeping Peers 
Honest in EigenTrust. Proceedings of the Second Workshop 
on Economics of Peer-Peer Systems. 2004. 
[3] C. Dellarocas. Goodwill Hunting: An Economically Efficient 
Online Feedback Mechanism for Environments with 
Variable kProduct Quality. AMEC 2002, LNAI 2531. J. 
Padget et al. (Eds.). pages 238-252. 2002. 
[4] O. Farideh. Bibliometrics, Citation Analysis and Co-citation 
Analysis: A Review of Literature L. Libri 46, September 
1996. 149-158.  
[5] E. Fourquet, K. Larson and W. Cowan. A Reputation 
Mechanism for Layered Communities. ACM SIGecom 
Exchanges, Vol. 6 No. 1, 05 2006, pages 11-22. 
[6] R. Guha, R. Kumar, P. Raghavan and A. Tomkins. 
Propagation of Trust and Distrust. Proceedings of the 
WWW2004, May 17-22, 2004, New York, New York, USA. 
[7] D. Houser. Reputation in Auctions: Theory and Evidence 
from eBay. Journal of Economics and Management Strategy, 
2004.   
[8] A. Josang, R. Ismail and Colin Boyd. A Survey of Trust and 
Reputation Systems for Online Service Provision. Decision 
Support Systems 2006. pages 1-46. 
[9] S. Kamvar, M. Schlosser and H. Garcia-Molina. The 
EigenTrust Algorithm for Reputation Management in P2P 
Networks. Prodceedings of the WWW2003, Budapest, 
Hungary. May 2003. 
[10] R. Larson, Bibliometrics of the World Wide Web: An 
exploratory analysis of the intellectual structure of 
cyberspace. Annual Meeting of the American Society for 
Information Science, 1996.  
[11] T. Papaioannou and G. Stamoulis. An Incentives’ 
Mechanism for Promoting Truthful Feedback in Peer-to-Peer 
Systems. In CCGRID 05: Proceedings of the 5th IEEE/ACM 
Internation Symposium on Cluster Computing and the Grid, 
IEEE Computer Society Press, Pages 259-266. 
[12] P. Resnick and R. Zeckhauser. Trust Among Strangers in 
Internet Transactions: Empirical Analysis of eBay’s 
Reputation System. In the Economics of the Internet and e-
Commerce, M.R. Baye, Ed. Advances in Applied 
micronomics, vol. 11. Elsevier Science, Amsterdam, 127-
157. 
[13] J. Sabater and C. Sierra. Reputation and Social Network 
Analysis in Multi-Agent Systems. Proceedings of the 1st 
International Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents and 
Multi-agent Systems. 475-482. 2002. 
[14] J. R. Seeley, The net of reciprocal influence: A problem in 
treating sociometric data. Canadian Journal of Psychology, 
3, pages 234-240, 1949. 
[15] N. Sundaresan. On an Online Reputation System. eBay 
Research Labs Technical Report. 2006. 
[16] S. Wasserman and K. Faust, Social Network Analysis: 
Methods and Applications. Cambridge University Press, 
1994. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
367
